steps for model dataset prep

read gps data for survey
mark effort - standard + straight line
(opt) get detection funs, mark trackpoints with diff functions
break track into start/end points of straight + same det fun

get grid of study area - polygon of track + some width? based on farthest localisation
or just tight around localisations? or NO cant just hug locs, need "zeroes", so define
a truncation distance and buffer that far
connect grid **DONE**

do for all track segs grid area and summitup

match locs to grid
get enviro and match to grid

DO MODULINS


from anne:
dasbr map, tethys list

Get localaizations in PAMr, then send those to distance and come back with det fun
If we have effort-mapped to the gps, then throw that out to gridded effort

Average across dates? One example on yvonnes date is between 9-16 and 10-16, theres 2 degree diff
in SST between those two months (only time SST updates is monthly)

attaching enviro data to a grid for modeling dataset - WHAT TIME VALUE DO YOU USE???

lol oh god we are biased upward because we are always using a smaller effort value for the same number
of detections??? seems like there should be away to reconcile this right?

Hmm... maybe we arent. In the pictures, the ESW isnt actually guaranteed to reach out ot where the whale
actually was, cuz its not out to truncation distance. And a lot of the time you add more area to the grid
cell than what is in a given transect segment ( unless grid is centered relative to transect), so maybe its
okay???

Oh wait...effort depends directly on grid size. Is that okay? Less likely to have multiple detections in
same grid, hmm. Should somehow make size comparable to line transect for more apples-apples?

Good to just examine difference between enviro at boat, enviro at animals. Should be easy to compare
right now based on detection time and gps trackline time.

Another possible problem...ours is always 1 sided, theirs is always 2 sided? I think this is okay because
we should have less detctions per row

What happens if bounds or pre-existing grid is smaller than our gps trackline + buffer?

In documentation highlight providing grid to thing again to save time